Tooling updates post (PSI, /measure) (#6662)
GoogleChrome/web.dev: src/site/content/en/blog/whats-new-pagespeed-insights/index.md

Core Web Vitals metrics FID, LCP, and CLS, may be aggregated at either the page
or origin level. For aggregations with sufficient data in all three metrics, the
aggregation passes the Core Web Vitals assessment if the 75th percentiles of all
three metrics are Good. Otherwise, the aggregation does not pass the assessment.
If the aggregation has insufficient FID data, it will pass the assessment if
both the 75th percentiles of LCP and CLS are Good. If either LCP or CLS has
insufficient data, the page or origin-level aggregation cannot be assessed.

### Labels for mobile and desktop performance 

We changed the navigation menu at the top and included links for mobile and
desktop centrally on the report page. The links are now easily visible and
distinctly indicate the platform for which the data is being shown. Doing this
also helped make the navigation bar cleaner.

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/hEv5XuTeVV98Z3AS59bQ.png", alt="Older (at the time of writing) version of PageSpeed Insights", width="800", height="97", class="w-screenshot" %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">

>     Before

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    PSI mobile and desktop labels before
```

  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/vi5j7ouZtmWwqN9BRsUD.png", alt="Newer version of the navigation bar", width="800", height="149", class="w-screenshot" %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">

>     After

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        PSI mobile and desktop labels after
```

running [Lighthouse](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/lighthouse) to
collect and analyze [lab
data](https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/v5/about#lab) about the
page. A score of 90 or above is considered good, 50-90 needs improvement, and
below 50 is poor.

**Field Data:** Field data, sourced from the
[CrUX report](https://developers.google.com/web/tools/chrome-user-experience-report)
dataset, provides insights into the real-world user experience. The data
includes metrics such as [First Contentful Paint](/fcp/) (FCP),
and measures Core Web Vitals  ([First Input Delay](/fid/) (FID),
[Largest Contentful Paint](/lcp/) (LCP), and [Cumulative Layout
Shift](/cls/) (CLS)). Along with the metric values, you can also
see the distribution of pages where the value of a particular metric was Good,
Needs Improvement, or Poor, indicated by green, amber, and red bars,
respectively. The distribution and scores are shown based on page loads for
users in the CrUX dataset. Scores are calculated for the last 28 days and are
not available for new pages where sufficient real-user data may not be
available.

> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/A7xrSBFuqf9puSgBJH4l.png", alt="breakdown of different sections of data in the current PageSpeed Insight report", width="800", height="497" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/A7xrSBFuqf9puSgBJH4l.png", alt="breakdown of different sections of data in the current PageSpeed Insight report", width="800", height="497", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

+   Clearly communicate how the [Core Web Vitals](/vitals/) assessment is calculated in the UI.
+   Modernize the look and feel of PSI, leveraging [Material Design](https://material.io/design).

This post introduces the new features in PSI which will be released later this
year. We will also discuss how PSI will now converge with another popular speed
tool—[web.dev/measure](/measure/). 

## What's new?

The PSI UI redesign aims to improve the presentation of the report data and add
clarity and granularity to the data available in the report. The new UI is aimed
to be more intuitive and helps developers quickly discover lab and field
performance insights for their pages. The fundamental changes to the UI
include:

### Clear separation of field and lab data

We have changed the UI to distinctly separate field data from lab data. Labels
for "Field Data" and "Lab data" have been replaced with text that indicates what
the data means and how it can help. We have also brought the Field data section
to the top. The traditional lab-based performance score, which is currently
shown at the top, has been moved down to the Lab data section to avoid ambiguity
about the origin of the score.

> (If you don't know the difference between lab and field data, be sure to check
> out the [explainer on web.dev](/how-to-measure-speed/).)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Aside %}
If you don't know the difference between lab and field data, check
out the [explainer on web.dev](/how-to-measure-speed/).
{% endAside %}
```

To reduce variance between the different tools in our performance toolbox, we
are also introducing an updated version of
[web.dev/measure](http://web.dev/measure). As a reminder, PageSpeed Insights is
a tool for measuring the performance and Core Web Vitals of a page (with lab and
field data), while web.dev/measure measures page quality more broadly and only
provides lab data. In the future, Measure will be directly powered by the
[PageSpeed Insights API](https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/v5/get-started).

Previously, developers would run reports via both the PSI tool and
[web.dev/measure](http://web.dev/measure) and see different Lighthouse numbers.
One of the main reasons for differences was because
[/measure](http://web.dev/measure) originated all tests from the U.S. 

With [web.dev/measure](http://web.dev/measure) using the same API as the PSI UI,
developers will get a consistent experience when using PSI or
/[measure](http://web.dev/measure). We have also made a few tweaks to /measure
based on how users use the tool. As a result, the signed-in experience for
/measure will be going away, but the most often used part—seeing multiple
categories—will stay. 

> web.dev/measure - current vs planned

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> <table>
> <thead>
> <tr>
> <th><p>
> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/KFZmLMU2iSxkPDph7FTV.png", alt="the outgoing (at time of writing) version of the measure page", width="800", height="377" %}
> </p>
> 
> </th>
> </tr>
> </thead>
> <tbody>
> <tr>
> <td><p>
> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/C04zQEkxtSQqPEQedNN7.png", alt="the refreshed version of the measure tool focusing on offering page quality measurement", width="800", height="696" %}
> </p>
> 
> </td>
> </tr>
> </tbody>
> </table>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/KFZmLMU2iSxkPDph7FTV.png", alt="The old version of the measure page.", width="800", height="377", class="w-screenshot" %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Before
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/C04zQEkxtSQqPEQedNN7.png", alt="The refreshed version of the measure tool focusing on offering page quality measurement.", width="800", height="696", class="w-screenshot" %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    After
  </figcaption>
</figure>

```

This post introduces the new features in PSI which will be released later this
year. We will also discuss how PSI will now converge with another popular speed
tool—[web.dev/measure](/measure/). 

## What's new?

The PSI UI redesign aims to improve the presentation of the report data and add
clarity and granularity to the data available in the report. The new UI is aimed
to be more intuitive and helps developers quickly discover lab and field
performance insights for their pages. The fundamental changes to the UI
include:

### Clear separation of field and lab data

We have changed the UI to distinctly separate field data from lab data. Labels
for "Field Data" and "Lab data" have been replaced with text that indicates what
the data means and how it can help. We have also brought the Field data section
to the top. The traditional lab-based performance score, which is currently
shown at the top, has been moved down to the Lab data section to avoid ambiguity
about the origin of the score.

(If you don't know the difference between lab and field data, be sure to check
out the [explainer on web.dev](/how-to-measure-speed/).)

<figure class="w-figure">

> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/jM0GYMrQZcPymVXdLOLP.png", alt="discover what your real users are experiencing", width="800", height="436" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/jM0GYMrQZcPymVXdLOLP.png", alt="discover what your real users are experiencing", width="800", height="436", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Section for field data
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">

> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/wQ9RGcJAcBBc4SUDK7Dz.png", alt="Diagnose performance issues", width="800", height="355" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/wQ9RGcJAcBBc4SUDK7Dz.png", alt="Diagnose performance issues", width="800", height="355", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Section for lab data
  </figcaption>
</figure>

> Section for lab data

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

### Core Web Vitals assessment

The Core Web Vitals assessment result, which earlier appeared as a single word
"passed" or "failed" in Field Data, now stands out as a separate subsection with
a distinct icon. 

Note that there is no change in the assessment process for Core Web Vitals. The
Core Web Vitals metrics FID, LCP, and CLS, may be aggregated at either the page
or origin level. For aggregations with sufficient data in all three metrics, the
aggregation passes the Core Web Vitals assessment if the 75th percentiles of all
three metrics are Good. Otherwise, the aggregation does not pass the assessment.
If the aggregation has insufficient FID data, it will pass the assessment if
both the 75th percentiles of LCP and CLS are Good. If either LCP or CLS has
insufficient data, the page or origin-level aggregation cannot be assessed.

### Labels for mobile and desktop performance 

We changed the navigation menu at the top and included links for mobile and
desktop centrally on the report page. The links are now easily visible and
distinctly indicate the platform for which the data is being shown. Doing this
also helped make the navigation bar cleaner.

> <table>
> <thead>
> <tr>
> <th><strong>Before</strong><br>
> <p>
> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/hEv5XuTeVV98Z3AS59bQ.png", alt="older (at time of writing) version of PageSpeed Insights", width="800", height="97" %}
> </p>
> 
> </th>
> </tr>
> </thead>
> <tbody>
> <tr>
> <td><strong>After</strong><br>
> <p>
> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/vi5j7ouZtmWwqN9BRsUD.png", alt="Newer version of navigation bar", width="800", height="149" %}
> </p>
> 
> </td>
> </tr>
> </tbody>
> </table>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/hEv5XuTeVV98Z3AS59bQ.png", alt="Older (at the time of writing) version of PageSpeed Insights", width="800", height="97", class="w-screenshot" %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    Before
  </figcaption>
</figure>

<figure class="w-figure">
  {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/vi5j7ouZtmWwqN9BRsUD.png", alt="Newer version of the navigation bar", width="800", height="149", class="w-screenshot" %}
  <figcaption class="w-figcaption">
    After
  </figcaption>
</figure>

```

### Origin Summary

The Origin Summary, which provides the aggregated CrUX score for all pages from
the origin, currently appears on click of a checkbox. We have moved this report
section to a new tab, "Origin", under the Field Data section.

> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/5Kn5meWq0sWwCLT69lMb.png", alt="origin summary for the new PageSpeed Insights refresh", width="800", height="381" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/5Kn5meWq0sWwCLT69lMb.png", alt="Origin summary for the new PageSpeed Insights refresh.", width="800", height="381", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

### Additional helpful information

The report now includes a new information section at the bottom of each field

> and lab card sharing the following details about the sampled data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and lab card sharing the following details about the sampled data:
```

+   Data collection period
+   Visit durations
+   Devices
+   Network connections
+   Sample size
+   Chrome versions 

This information should enhance the distinction between lab and field data and
help users who have previously been uncertain how the two data sources (lab and
field) might differ. 

> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/jVxqisC0x6I5viUGgjAD.png", alt="enhanced section of information sharing data about field and lab sampling and configuration data", width="800", height="368" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/jVxqisC0x6I5viUGgjAD.png", alt="Enhanced section of information sharing data about field and lab sampling and configuration data", width="800", height="368", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

### Expand view

We have a new "Expand view" feature that adds a drill-down function to the field
data section and allows you to view granular details for the Core Web Vitals
metrics. 

> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/UFVgoK1gJBYk5DLhFwIn.png", alt="ALT_TEXT_HERE", width="800", height="515" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/UFVgoK1gJBYk5DLhFwIn.png", alt="Newly expanded view with a drill-down for field data metrics.", width="800", height="515" %}
```

### Page image

We have removed the image of the loaded page, which appears right next to the
field data. The image and thumbnails of the page displaying the loading sequence
will both be available in the lab data section.

> {% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/dnIsJA35tj7vs6qgybRM.png", alt="newly expanded view with a drill-down for field data metrics", width="800", height="444" %}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{% Img src="image/1L2RBhCLSnXjCnSlevaDjy3vba73/dnIsJA35tj7vs6qgybRM.png", alt="Loaded page image next to the lab data.", width="800", height="444", class="w-screenshot" %}
```

For up to date product documentation, visit
[https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/.](https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/v5/about)

## Updates to web.dev/measure

> To reduce variance between the different tools in our performance toolbox, we
> are also introducing an updated version of
> [web.dev/measure](http://web.dev/measure). As a reminder, PageSpeed Insights is
> a tool for measuring the performance and Core Web Vitals of a page (with lab and
> field data), while web.dev/measure measures page quality more broadly and only
> provides lab data. In the future, Measure will be directly powered by the
> [PageSpeed Insights API](https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/v5/get-started).
> 
> Previously, developers would run reports via both the PSI tool and
> [web.dev/measure](http://web.dev/measure) and see different Lighthouse numbers.
> One of the main reasons for differences was because
> [/measure](http://web.dev/measure) originated all tests from the U.S. 
> 
> With [web.dev/measure](http://web.dev/measure) using the same API as the PSI UI,
> developers will get a consistent experience when using PSI or
> /[measure](http://web.dev/measure). We have also made a few tweaks to /measure
> based on how users use the tool. As a result, the signed-in experience for
> /measure will be going away, but the most often used part—seeing multiple
> categories—will stay. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To reduce variance between the different tools in our performance toolbox, we
are also introducing an updated version of
[web.dev/measure](/measure). As a reminder, PageSpeed Insights is
a tool for measuring the performance and Core Web Vitals of a page (with lab and
field data), while web.dev/measure measures page quality more broadly and only
provides lab data. In the future, Measure will be directly powered by the
[PageSpeed Insights API](https://developers.google.com/speed/docs/insights/v5/get-started).

Previously, developers would run reports via both the PSI tool and
[web.dev/measure](/measure) and see different Lighthouse numbers.
One of the main reasons for differences was because
[/measure](/measure) originated all tests from the U.S. 

With [web.dev/measure](/measure) using the same API as the PSI UI,
developers will get a consistent experience when using PSI or
[web.dev/measure](/measure). We have also made a few tweaks to /measure
based on how users use the tool. As a result, the signed-in experience for
/measure will be going away, but the most often used part—seeing multiple
categories—will stay. 
```

> web.dev/measure - current vs planned

Reviewer 2: The new /measure tool is live. The old UI is not accessible anymore.

Reviewer: Thanks for the heads up, I'll rewrite that bit
